So the next thing I wanna talk about
is the Anatomy of a Go File and
what you're starting
within your application.
So I'm going to flip over to my code
editor and build a file from scratch.
In the Go repository that we're working
with I'm gonna create a New file,
and I'm gonna call it test.
Nope, not test,
I'm gonna call it practice.go.
And so the first thing every
Go File needs is a package name.
And the package name lives at
the top of the file here and for
now we're gonna say package main.
And every Go program needs
at least a package main.
We're gonna look at creating
custom packages down the road.
But for now we're gonna start here, and
this package is going to encompass
whatever files live in the same folder.
And allow us access to
some of the variables and
functions that only are associated
with this main package.
And we can kind of pass that around and
encapsulate some of
the code in smaller pieces.
The next line is gonna be
any import statements for
any additional libraries you might need.
So we've noticed that we've been using the
thumped package to print to the console.
And I know I'm gonna be using that
later on in this particular file.
So I'm gonna import that at the top.
And the input statements
allow you to access
additional libraries that
ship with the Go code.
For instance, if you're handling day time
or strings or convention of types or
input output, and we'll see a lot
of those throughout the day.
And the third part here is
the actual main function.
So to create a function and
go use the word funk F-U-N-K, and
every Go program needs both
a package main and a main function.
And the main function is gonna be
the entry point for your program where
Go starts executing the code and fires off
whatever else happens in your program.
So for now in main,
I'm just gonna circle back
to our print line function.
An interesting aspect of Go as well
is that in any particular package, so
right now,
we're looking at the main package.
If we had additional
files in our directory,
you can only have one funk main
function in that directory.
So earlier in the code base,
we ran this main.go file to get
the Hello Front-End Masters.
And so right now, I'm working with two
different files in the same directory that
both have funk main.
So to fix this problem for now,
I'm gonna comment out one of them
because we don't need two right now for
this example, and then I'm gonna move
back to our practice.Go to run this code.
I'll use the terminal that lives in
VS code to kind of run most of our
examples today.
And then to actually execute this program,
you're gonna use the command GoRun, which
we'll talk about a little bit later, and
then the name of the file you're running.
So I'm just in the repository
like the top level directory.
And so I'm gonna run Go, run, practice.Go.
And I should see Hello World
print to the console.
So what's happening is Go
is going to find that file,
it's gonna find the main function and
it's gonna execute whatever's inside
it based on the file we just created.
Another side note about the structure of
the repository here is that each of these
directories do have their own
main function within them.
And as we continue to work through some
examples, you might have to kinda comment
out some of the main functions
depending on where we're at.
Just as a side note.
>> When you run the practice Go, it's
reading other files in the same module.
>> It is, so in the directory I'm in in
the top level directory Go is looking for
anything that says package main.
And within package main you can
only have one main function.
So once it sees two it's
conflicted with what to run and
doesn't know where to start
executing that initial file.